Let's look at one other framework.
The FAIR Institute is a non-profit organization
dedicated to the discipline of measuring and managing information risk.
Through that process, they've created
a cyber risk management framework that focuses on measuring what they call value at risk.
Now if you're coming from a financial risk management background,
you're probably a little confuse right now.
For everyone else, value at risk is
a financial risk management term and the two terms are not exactly the same.
There's a somewhat complex explanation as to how
those two terms relate on the FAIR website but
it's probably best for me to explain that FAIR's value at risk is really aimed at one,
assigning value to cyber risk, and two,
encouraging value-based decision making for the organization.
What's interesting about the FAIR approach to me is that they distinguish between
what they call implicit risk management and explicit risk management.
Implicit, meaning that organizations work to align
controls to specific cybersecurity control risk management frameworks,
audit against the frameworks, and remediate issues.
The argument being that managing to a standard ensures compliance with that standard,
but it doesn't necessarily address risk in context of the business.
Instead, they argue for explicit risk-management,
meaning that by understanding value at risk,
you can define a clear risk management target,
a financial target, and manage to hit that target.
I absolutely agree with this approach in principle,
but there are some challenges.